This is an excerpt from the complete grib2v5d documentation contained
in the directory doc, in Latex, Postscript and html formats.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Installing and compiling

The grib2v5d package requires that vis5d and the picogrib and
grib_util libraries (provided by ARPA-SMR) be already installed.  You
can download these libraries from SourceForge at the URLs
http://download.sourceforge.net/gributil/grib_util.tar.gz
and
http://download.sourceforge.net/picogrib/picogrib.tar.gz.
For more updated links see also the grib2v5d home page:
http://grib2v5d.sourceforge.net/.


Installing Vis5d

In order to compile grib2v5d, Vis5d (or Vis5d+) sources should be
correctly installed under the directory $VIS5D or $VIS5D/vis5d-last.
If otherwise you have Vis5d+ binaries with libraries and header files
installed, then the sources are not needed, provided the configure
script can locate the Vis5d+ installation.


Building grib libraries

Prior to installing the libraries you should define in your .profile
or similar file a UNIX environment variable $USOHOME pointing to the
directory where the libraries will be installed (and where grib2v5d
will look for them) and create the directory $USOHOME/lib.  You can
then extract the libraries tar archives and build them with the
commands:

gzip -c gributil.tar.gz | tar xvf -; cd gributil; make

and

gzip -c picogrib.tar.gz | tar xvf -; cd picogrib; make

if all goes the right way you should have your libraries picogrib.a
and grib_util.a in the directory $USOHOME/lib.


Building grib2v5d

Extract the tar archive grib2v5d.tar and enter the newly created
directory grib2v5d.  Since version 2 of grib2v5d an autoconfiguration
script has been created, dealing with most of the system-dependent
problems you may encounter.  However you may still have to modify
something in the file Configure.set according to the instructions
inside it, in particular, if you have Vis5d+ correctly installed, you
should unset the environment variable VIS5D in order to link with the
installed libraries, unless you want to compile the Vis5d sources
required in grib2v5d and link them statically.  Moreover, if your
operating system is not one of those that have already been tested
with the configuration script, you may have to create a
configure.`uname` file based on configure.template, containing
OS-specific compiler invocation, command line parameters, etc.  Type
then ./configure to perform the configuration: a Make.set file will be
created to be included by the makefiles; type make to compile and,
optionally make install to install grib2v5d executable and
documentation.  The autoconfiguration procedure has been tested under
AIX-IBM, OSF-Alpha, Linux-i386, Irix-SGI and SUNOS; options for other
Unix flavours from users are welcome.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Running grib2v5d - quick guide

Use one of the namelists already provided with the package:

-hybht.naml for converting fields from Lokal Modell vertical hybrid
coordinate system to Vis5d height system

-hybhyb.naml for viewing Lokal Modell hybrid vertical coordinate
surfaces directly into Vis5d

-sigmaht.naml for converting fields in sigma vertical coordinate
system to Vis5d height system

-etaht.naml for converting fields from Mesinger-Eta vertical
coordinate system to Vis5d height system

-prespres.naml for viewing Lokal Modell pressure coordinate data
directly into Vis5d

-prespresec.naml for viewing ECMWF pressure coordinate data directly
into Vis5d

-complete.naml is a version of hybht.naml which, in addition,
explicitly contains all the variables that do not need to be changed
from their default value for a standard use

For Lokal Modell hybht.naml should be the best one, so copy it to
another file named v5d.naml, edit this file in the following way:

-insert into tabfth the list of forecast times (in hours) expected in
the grib file

-set the character variable inname to the name of the grib input file
available

-set the character variable outname to the name of the vis5d output
file desired

and execute grib2v5d.  After some time and many lines of information
from the program you should get your Vis5d data in the output file
previously specified.

